README.md, before:

# ArduPilot Project

[![Gitter](https://badges.gitter.im/Join%20Chat.svg)](https://gitter.im/ArduPilot/ardupilot?utm_source=badge&utm_medium=badge&utm_campaign=pr-badge&utm_content=badge)

[![Build SemaphoreCI](https://semaphoreci.com/api/v1/ardupilot/ardupilot/branches/master/badge.svg)](https://semaphoreci.com/ardupilot/ardupilot)

[![Build Travis](https://travis-ci.org/ArduPilot/ardupilot.svg?branch=master)](https://travis-ci.org/ArduPilot/ardupilot)

[![Coverity Scan Build Status](https://scan.coverity.com/projects/5331/badge.svg)](https://scan.coverity.com/projects/ardupilot-ardupilot)

## The ArduPilot project is made up of: ##

- ArduCopter (or APM:Copter) : [code](https://github.com/ArduPilot/ardupilot/tree/master/ArduCopter), [wiki](http://ardupilot.org/copter/index.html)

- ArduPlane (or APM:Plane) : [code](https://github.com/ArduPilot/ardupilot/tree/master/ArduPlane), [wiki](http://ardupilot.org/plane/index.html)

- ArduRover (or APMrover2) : [code](https://github.com/ArduPilot/ardupilot/tree/master/APMrover2), [wiki](http://ardupilot.org/rover/index.html)

- ArduSub (or APM:Sub) : [code](https://github.com/ArduPilot/ardupilot/tree/master/ArduSub), [wiki](http://ardusub.com/)

- Antenna Tracker : [code](https://github.com/ArduPilot/ardupilot/tree/master/AntennaTracker), [wiki](http://ardupilot.org/antennatracker/index.html)

## User Support & Discussion Forums ##

- Support Forum: <http://discuss.ardupilot.org/>

- Community Site: <http://ardupilot.org>

## Developer Information ##

- Github repository: <https://github.com/ArduPilot/ardupilot>

- Main developer wiki: <http://dev.ardupilot.org>

- Developer discussion: <http://discuss.ardupilot.org>

- Developer chat: <https://gitter.im/ArduPilot/ardupilot>

## Contributors ##

- [Github statistics](https://github.com/ArduPilot/ardupilot/graphs/contributors)

## How To Get Involved ##

- The ArduPilot project is open source and we encourage participation and code contributions: [guidelines for contributors to the ardupilot codebase](http://ardupilot.org/dev/docs/contributing.html)

- We have an active group of Beta Testers especially for ArduCopter to help us find bugs: [release procedures](http://dev.ardupilot.org/wiki/release-procedures)

- Desired Enhancements and Bugs can be posted to the [issues list](https://github.com/ArduPilot/ardupilot/issues).

- Helping other users with log analysis on [http://discuss.ardupilot.org/](http://discuss.ardupilot.org/) is always appreciated:

- There is a group of wiki editors as well in case documentation is your thing: <ardu-wiki-editors@googlegroups.com>

- Developer discussions occur on <drones-discuss@google-groups.com>

## License ##

The ArduPilot project is licensed under the GNU General Public
License, version 3.

- [Overview of license](http://dev.ardupilot.com/wiki/license-gplv3)

- [Full Text](https://github.com/ArduPilot/ardupilot/blob/master/COPYING.txt)

## Maintainers ##

Ardupilot is comprised of several parts, vehicles and boards. The list below
contains the people that regularly contribute to the project and are responsible
for reviewing patches on their specific area. See [CONTRIBUTING.md](.github/CONTRIBUTING.md) for more information.

- [Andrew Tridgell](https://github.com/tridge):
  - ***Vehicle***: Plane, AntennaTracker
  - ***Board***: APM1, APM2, Pixhawk, Pixhawk2, PixRacer
- [Randy Mackay](https://github.com/rmackay9):
  - ***Vehicle***: Copter, Rover, AntennaTracker
- [Grant Morphett](https://github.com/gmorph):
  - ***Vehicle***: Rover
- [Tom Pittenger](https://github.com/magicrub):
  - ***Vehicle***: Plane
- [Chris Olson](https://github.com/ChristopherOlson) and [Bill Geyer](https://github.com/bnsgeyer):
  - ***Vehicle***: TradHeli
- [Paul Riseborough](https://github.com/priseborough):
  - ***Subsystem***: AP_NavEKF2
  - ***Subsystem***: AP_NavEKF3
- [Lucas De Marchi](https://github.com/lucasdemarchi):
  - ***Subsystem***: Linux
- [Peter Barker](https://github.com/peterbarker):
  - ***Subsystem***: DataFlash
  - ***Subsystem***: Tools
- [Michael du Breuil](https://github.com/WickedShell):
  - ***Subsystem***: SMBus Batteries
  - ***Subsystem***: GPS
- [Francisco Ferreira](https://github.com/oxinarf):
  - ***Bug Master***
- [Matthias Badaire](https://github.com/badzz):
  - ***Subsystem***: FRSky
- [Eugene Shamaev](https://github.com/EShamaev):
  - ***Subsystem***: CAN bus
  - ***Subsystem***: UAVCAN
- [Víctor Mayoral Vilches](https://github.com/vmayoral):
  - ***Board***: PXF, Erle-Brain 2, PXFmini
- [Mirko Denecke](https://github.com/mirkix):
  - ***Board***: BBBmini, BeagleBone Blue, PocketPilot
- [Georgii Staroselskii](https://github.com/staroselskii):
  - ***Board***: NavIO
- [Emile Castelnuovo](https://github.com/emilecastelnuovo):
  - ***Board***: VRBrain
- [Julien Beraud](https://github.com/jberaud):
  - ***Board***: Bebop & Bebop 2
- [Matt Lawrence](https://github.com/Pedals2Paddles):
  - ***Vehicle***: 3DR Solo & Solo based vehicles
- [Gustavo José de Sousa](https://github.com/guludo):
  - ***Subsystem***: Build system
- [Craig Elder](https://github.com/CraigElder):
  - ***Administration***: ArduPilot Technical Community Manager
- [Jacob Walser](https://github.com/jaxxzer):
  - ***Vehicle***: Sub
- [Pierre Kancir](https://github.com/khancyr):
  - ***Subsystem***: Copter SITL, Rover SITL
- [Leonard Hall](https://github.com/lthall):
  - ***Subsystem***: Copter attitude control and navigation

Commit message:

README: add list with merge rights
Removed Craig from maintainers list only because this particular list is for code maintainers.  Many others members of the team in non-coding roles are also not on the list.

README.md, after:

# ArduPilot Project

[![Gitter](https://badges.gitter.im/Join%20Chat.svg)](https://gitter.im/ArduPilot/ardupilot?utm_source=badge&utm_medium=badge&utm_campaign=pr-badge&utm_content=badge)

[![Build SemaphoreCI](https://semaphoreci.com/api/v1/ardupilot/ardupilot/branches/master/badge.svg)](https://semaphoreci.com/ardupilot/ardupilot)

[![Build Travis](https://travis-ci.org/ArduPilot/ardupilot.svg?branch=master)](https://travis-ci.org/ArduPilot/ardupilot)

[![Coverity Scan Build Status](https://scan.coverity.com/projects/5331/badge.svg)](https://scan.coverity.com/projects/ardupilot-ardupilot)

## The ArduPilot project is made up of: ##

- ArduCopter (or APM:Copter) : [code](https://github.com/ArduPilot/ardupilot/tree/master/ArduCopter), [wiki](http://ardupilot.org/copter/index.html)

- ArduPlane (or APM:Plane) : [code](https://github.com/ArduPilot/ardupilot/tree/master/ArduPlane), [wiki](http://ardupilot.org/plane/index.html)

- ArduRover (or APMrover2) : [code](https://github.com/ArduPilot/ardupilot/tree/master/APMrover2), [wiki](http://ardupilot.org/rover/index.html)

- ArduSub (or APM:Sub) : [code](https://github.com/ArduPilot/ardupilot/tree/master/ArduSub), [wiki](http://ardusub.com/)

- Antenna Tracker : [code](https://github.com/ArduPilot/ardupilot/tree/master/AntennaTracker), [wiki](http://ardupilot.org/antennatracker/index.html)

## User Support & Discussion Forums ##

- Support Forum: <http://discuss.ardupilot.org/>

- Community Site: <http://ardupilot.org>

## Developer Information ##

- Github repository: <https://github.com/ArduPilot/ardupilot>

- Main developer wiki: <http://dev.ardupilot.org>

- Developer discussion: <http://discuss.ardupilot.org>

- Developer chat: <https://gitter.im/ArduPilot/ardupilot>

## Contributors ##

- [Github statistics](https://github.com/ArduPilot/ardupilot/graphs/contributors)

## How To Get Involved ##

- The ArduPilot project is open source and we encourage participation and code contributions: [guidelines for contributors to the ardupilot codebase](http://ardupilot.org/dev/docs/contributing.html)

- We have an active group of Beta Testers especially for ArduCopter to help us find bugs: [release procedures](http://dev.ardupilot.org/wiki/release-procedures)

- Desired Enhancements and Bugs can be posted to the [issues list](https://github.com/ArduPilot/ardupilot/issues).

- Helping other users with log analysis on [http://discuss.ardupilot.org/](http://discuss.ardupilot.org/) is always appreciated:

- There is a group of wiki editors as well in case documentation is your thing: <ardu-wiki-editors@googlegroups.com>

- Developer discussions occur on <drones-discuss@google-groups.com>

## License ##

The ArduPilot project is licensed under the GNU General Public
License, version 3.

- [Overview of license](http://dev.ardupilot.com/wiki/license-gplv3)

- [Full Text](https://github.com/ArduPilot/ardupilot/blob/master/COPYING.txt)

## Maintainers ##

Ardupilot is comprised of several parts, vehicles and boards. The list below
contains the people that regularly contribute to the project and are responsible
for reviewing patches on their specific area.  See also the list of developers with [merge rights] (https://github.com/orgs/ArduPilot/teams/ardupilot-maintainers/members).

- [Andrew Tridgell](https://github.com/tridge):
  - ***Vehicle***: Plane, AntennaTracker
  - ***Board***: APM1, APM2, Pixhawk, Pixhawk2, PixRacer
- [Randy Mackay](https://github.com/rmackay9):
  - ***Vehicle***: Copter, Rover, AntennaTracker
- [Grant Morphett](https://github.com/gmorph):
  - ***Vehicle***: Rover
- [Tom Pittenger](https://github.com/magicrub):
  - ***Vehicle***: Plane
- [Chris Olson](https://github.com/ChristopherOlson) and [Bill Geyer](https://github.com/bnsgeyer):
  - ***Vehicle***: TradHeli
- [Paul Riseborough](https://github.com/priseborough):
  - ***Subsystem***: AP_NavEKF2
  - ***Subsystem***: AP_NavEKF3
- [Lucas De Marchi](https://github.com/lucasdemarchi):
  - ***Subsystem***: Linux
- [Peter Barker](https://github.com/peterbarker):
  - ***Subsystem***: DataFlash
  - ***Subsystem***: Tools
- [Michael du Breuil](https://github.com/WickedShell):
  - ***Subsystem***: SMBus Batteries
  - ***Subsystem***: GPS
- [Francisco Ferreira](https://github.com/oxinarf):
  - ***Bug Master***
- [Matthias Badaire](https://github.com/badzz):
  - ***Subsystem***: FRSky
- [Eugene Shamaev](https://github.com/EShamaev):
  - ***Subsystem***: CAN bus
  - ***Subsystem***: UAVCAN
- [Víctor Mayoral Vilches](https://github.com/vmayoral):
  - ***Board***: PXF, Erle-Brain 2, PXFmini
- [Mirko Denecke](https://github.com/mirkix):
  - ***Board***: BBBmini, BeagleBone Blue, PocketPilot
- [Georgii Staroselskii](https://github.com/staroselskii):
  - ***Board***: NavIO
- [Emile Castelnuovo](https://github.com/emilecastelnuovo):
  - ***Board***: VRBrain
- [Julien Beraud](https://github.com/jberaud):
  - ***Board***: Bebop & Bebop 2
- [Matt Lawrence](https://github.com/Pedals2Paddles):
  - ***Vehicle***: 3DR Solo & Solo based vehicles
- [Gustavo José de Sousa](https://github.com/guludo):
  - ***Subsystem***: Build system
- [Jacob Walser](https://github.com/jaxxzer):
  - ***Vehicle***: Sub
- [Pierre Kancir](https://github.com/khancyr):
  - ***Subsystem***: Copter SITL, Rover SITL
- [Leonard Hall](https://github.com/lthall):
  - ***Subsystem***: Copter attitude control and navigation
